turkserver
==========

Turkserver hosts Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT)-style surveys on your own server. Does not handle users, payment, etc. Requires an Apache web server with PHP 5 or higher.

## Installation

1. Copy the `turkserver` folder onto your server. The "turkserver" folder name will become part of survey URLs, so change the name of the directory if you like.
2. Point your browser to the test page, at `http://server/.../turkserver/test`. This page will check to make sure that turkserver is installed properly.
3. Start hosting experiments! See "usage" below.

## Usage

### Basic experiment creation

Experiments are generated by simply copying your experimental items and template into the turkserver's `data` directory. Turkserver uses a particular file naming convention. Follow these steps to create an experiment:

1. Choose an *experiment name*. This will be a code that will become part of the URL for your experiment. It should be a combination of letters and/or numbers, with no spaces.
2. Name the experimental item lists file (in comma-separated-value format; aka "batch file" in AMT terms) `<experiment_name>.csv` and copy it into the turkserver's `data` directory. Note that one of the columns in your file must be called "list", with each list numbered sequentially: 0, 1, 2,... (If you are using [turktools](http://github.com/mitcho/turktools/), this will already be generated for you.)
3. Name your experiment's template file `<experiment_name>.html` and copy it into the turkserver's `data` directory.
4. And you're done! Go to `http://server/.../turkserver/<experiment_name>` to participate in your experiment.

### Retreiving results

Results for your experiment will be saved into turkserver's `data` directory, in a file named `<experiment_name>.results.csv`. The format of the results is designed to mimic the output from AMT.

### Advanced settings and ending your experiment

...

## Preflight todo

* create test page
* make sure multiple submissions with the same assignmentId is denied
* add missing MTurk fields in results files

## The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Michael Yoshitaka Erlewine <mitcho@mitcho.com> and contributors

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
